# Introduction
The aim of the lab is to design a radar system that will monitor the Dublin airport airspace.
The document will develop a conceptual and full design model for how a radar system
with the specified problem statement below might be implemented.

# Problem Statement
A radar system is required to monitor the airspace of Dublin airport.
The radar system will use a pair of transmitter and receiver to propagate radio waves to detect objects in airspace.
The radar system will be composed of two **radio systems**: **primary** and **secondary**. Each radio system will contain a transmitter and receiver pair.
The primary system will be used to detect aerial objects by measuring the response wave reflected from the aerial object.
The primary system will provide **positional data** in terms of **angle** and **distance** from radar (polar co-ordinates).
The secondary system will target aerial objects that contain a transponder which will provide **identification data** such as **name** and **altitude**.
Aerial objects such as UFO’s (Unidentified Flying Objects) and military objects will not contain transponders,
in the case such object is detected a **warning signal** is generated for the operative of the radar system.
The combination of primary and secondary radar data will be referred as a **track**.
Each track instance will be managed by a central processing unit that will also enable an operative to view the track data on a **display** with the ability to pull detailed data by the interaction with a **button**.
The radar system should provide a **warning signal** in the case either radar system is down or unavailable.

# Software Analysis
## Use Case Analysis

Identified Actors:
* Primary radio system
* secondary radio system
* radar operator
* Aerial Objects (military, UFO, commercial,etc)

Identified Use Cases:
* radar operator:
    * Get track data
* primary radio system:
    * Get positional data
    * Get status
* secondary radio system:
    * Get identification data
    * Get status
* radar system (self):
    * Create Tracks \<\<includes\>\> Get positional data, Get identification data
    * Remove Tracks
    * Set Warning \<\<extends\>\> Get identification data, Get status
    * Update Display \<\<includes\>\> Create Tracks

## Use Case 1: Detect Aircraft
- Primary Actor: Primary Radar
- Goal in Context: Detect and get the position of any object in the airspace.
- Level:
  - Radar system
- Stakeholders and Interests:
  - Primary Radar: Detects any aerial object by using RF reflections.
  - Aerial Object: The object that is detected by the primary radar.
- Preconditions: Radar system is powered on
- Minimum Guarantee: A real object is found in the airspace
- Success Guarantee:
Object is detected, and its exact position is found.
The position can be included in the track generated by processor.
- Trigger: Reflection of RF pulse
- Main Success Scenario:
  - Primary radar emits an RF pulse.
  - RF pulse is reflected by an object in the airspace.
  - Receiver captures reflection.
  - System calculates angle and distance.
  - System saves plot.
- Extension:
  - If detection fails → trigger alarm.

## Use Case 2: Interrogate Aircraft
- Primary Actor: Secondary Radar
- Goal in Context: Obtain identification and altitude from aircraft.
- Level: Primary
- Stakeholders and Interests:
   - Secondary Radar: Radar that collects data.
   - Aircraft: aircraft in the airspace.
- Preconditions: Aircraft contains a transducer; secondary radar is operational.
- Minimum Guarantee: Radar initialises interrogation.
- Success Guarantee: Aircraft with a transponder returns identification and altitude data to the radar system.
- Trigger: Reflection of interrogation RF pulse.
- Main Success Scenario:
   - Secondary radar sends interrogation RF pulse.
   - Aircraft transponder responds with ID and altitude.
   - System receives and stores data.
- Extension: 
   - If no response -> mark as possible UFO/military aircraft.

## Use Case 3: Create Track
- Primary Actor: Target Processor
- Goal in Context: Combine primary and secondary data (plots) into a track.
- Level: Primary
- Stakeholders and Interests:
   - Target Processor:  merges plots and displays data.
   - Primary Radar: collects aerial object positional data.
   - Secondary Radar: collects ID and altitude data from aerial objects with transponders.
- Preconditions: Data has been collected from radars for at least one plot.
- Minimum Guarantee: Processor can handle more than one plot of data.
- Success Guarantee: All plots created from radar data is merged into a track and stored.
- Trigger: New plot detected
- Main Success Scenario:
   - Both radars collected reliable data.
   - Plot is retrieved by the Target Processor.
   - Target Processor combines both radar data (positional and identification).
   - Creates track from the plots.
- Extension: 
   - If no primary data -> track is marked as unidentified.

## Use Case 4: Display Track
- Primary Actor: Radar Operator
- Goal in Context: View track data on display.
- Level: User
- Stakeholders and Interests:
   - Target Processor: Displays the track data on a display.
   - Radar Operator: Can update display view through button presses.
- Preconditions: Track data exists.
- Minimum Guarantee: Track data is displayed
- Success Guarantee: Operator can view accurate track data and switch to more detailed information by pressing the corresponding button.
- Trigger: Operator requests for display update.
- Main Success Scenario:
   - Operator presses button.
   - System retrieves track data.
   - System updates display.
- Extensions:
   - Operator can change display mode (real-time/historical).
   - Operator can request for detailed information.

## Use Case 5: Signal Alarm
- Primary Actors: Alarm system
- Goal in Context: Produce a warning when radar failure occurs or UFO detection.
- Level: Primary
- Stakeholders and Interests:
   - Alarm system: Provides warning signal when conditions above occur.
   - Primary Radar: Can fail and cause alarm to signal warning
   - Secondary Radar: can fail and also detect a UFO resulting in signal warning.
- Preconditions: The rest of radar system is operational.
- Minimum Guarantee: Detect status of radars.
- Success Guarantee: The alarm system is able to detect both fatal conditions and can produce a warning signal to alert everyone of problem.
- Trigger: Radar failure or UFO detection.
- Main Success Scenario:
   - System checks radar health.
   - Detects failure or UFO.
   - Activates alarm.
- Extension:
   - Log event for maintenance.

